Hi guys.
Over the next few labs we're going to create some resources using CloudFormation and then Elastic Beanstalk.
So for this lab we're going to use CloudFormation to create some infrastructure.
Now I'm in the CloudFormation management console here and we can see on the left we've got stacks and
stacks sets and then we got exports and design and we'll talk about those in a minute.
But before we talk about stacks you need to understand the concepts of templates.
So a template is your architectural design for the infrastructure that you want to build.
You can create update and delete resources using templates and these are written in JSON or YAML
languages. CloudFormation can determine the order of provisioning of your resources.
And so you don't need to worry about dependencies it handles that for you.
And there's actually a couple of ways that we can create our template files.
You can even write them manually or you can actually use a visual designer which is what we see on the
left there and we'll have a look at that in a minute.
So what I want to do is just create a couple of stacks in this lab.
So for starters let's just create a stack and have a look through the options here.
So if we have a template already we can choose this option and we can find our template on S3 or
we can upload one.
It's actually got a year earlier when I was looking at previously you can alternatively go to use a
sample template or create a template through the designer.
What we're going to do is choose the sample template and has few options here.
We're going to do the wordpress blog and this is the simple wordpress blog.
There's also a multi AZ one which we're do in the next lab but I just want to choose wordpress blog
and let's have a look in the designer.
So in the designer it's just sort of crept off screen there.
I'm just going to drag this up
but here are the resources so very very simple.
There's an instance and there's a security group and you know if you had more complexity you could take
components from the left hand side here like you might want to take a some auto scaling and you could
you could pull the resource in so you can take an auto scaling group and pull it in here and you see
straight away it starts creating the code for you and then you would be able to link in your auto scaling
group and configure things up and you do the same for load balancers and pretty much anything you can
you could do you can see the list of services here and it's very very long.
So I'm just going to delete that because I don't need that resource so you can see down here we've got
components and template and this is just organizing the code and you can have a look frame and everything
that you're going to try is defined here including you have some options.
So for instance you can see that there's some allowed values and through the wizard you'll get the
option to choose which instances you want and we can choose between JSON or YAML and it just changes
the code for us in the edits here.
So I don't need to change anything here so I'm just going to close it down by the way a couple of things
you can do.
You can hit this link here actually exports of.
So you get an image of your infrastructure and you can also create the stack here and you can save your
template out.
What I want to do is just close the editor and come back and I'm just gonna do that again.
So then we go here and choose wordpress blog click on Next.
I'm going to call this simple WP and I'm just going to copy this family.
So here the premise is that we can define I'm going to put in the password and I'm going to paste the
same value in all of these and I'm gonna change the instance to t2 micro and you then choose you key pair
and you can modify the SSH location if you want to lock it down to certain IP or IP ranges.
I'm just gonna leave it open it.
It's a come from anywhere you can then choose an IAM role if you want to define permissions for a role
otherwise that we use your user credentials which in my case is fine so I'll continue and you then get
a bit of a summary it tells you what it's going to create.
You can estimate the cost and you can see here the parameters that are going to be passed into the stack
creation process and we don't need to change anything else.
So I'm just going to click Create stack and so we can now see that it's in progress and you can see
some of the definition of the stack here.
You can go into events and you can see what's happening and click refresh will you also get an updated
view of what's happening.
You can see the resources that are being created here.
And if there are some outputs then you'll see the outputs.
And again we can look at your parameters and you can look at your template file change that's something
that we're going to cover in another lab but this is a way that you can test and visualize the changes
that you're going to make to your infrastructure before you actually put the changes into effect.
So we just need to wait a few minutes now for this to complete and what's happening.
Let's just head over to EC2
and we should be able to see our resources running.
Now the top two here are actually things that I've just got running from some some other work that I'm
doing.
But this bottom one here that's initializing This is the one that's being created now.
So we've got the IP address is being initialized we should be had a copy of that and secure shell into
this instance.
So I want to come online and I just want to secure shell into this instance.
And there we go we can go in Change to route if we want to just to show you that you know with cloud
formation you have full control. You know these resources are yours.. all that's happening is you
are defining the resources that you want to create.
But you take full control of those resources.
So the other thing we should be able to do now.
Let's see if this instance is is ready.
So I put it in the IP address and there's a Linux test page coming out so we know that Apache's installed
and we should be out to access WordPress by going to slash Wordpress and we get this area says the PHP
is the wrong version.
So for some reason the template is not updated so it doesn't install a version of PHP which we need
for wordpress.
Now what we could do is we could just use the command line we could uninstall PHP and we could update
it to the latest version and you know that would fix our problem we get WordPress working.
But what I want to show you is how you do that through CloudFormation.
So what we can do for now is we don't need this now let's just kill off this stack.
So we just delete.
And I'm going to go back to Stack's, create stack, and I want to find this template and I'm gonna visualize
it in the designer and what I want to do is I'm just going to search for PHP and I know that I can change
these values so I'm just gonna change this to PHP 7 0.
I'm going to change page PHP bash mysql to page PHP 70 dash mysql and then
D on the end. And I also need to change HTTP to HTTPD24.
So there's a couple of changes that I need to make and everything else stays the same.
And what I can do now is I can actually save this file.
Now I can save it into an S3 bucket or I can save it locally.
So I'm just gonna say this locally as simple WP and click on save.
So we have our template files saved.
I can now choose create stack and this time I can choose template is ready and then upload a file and
I'm going to choose this simple WP file here and it does a quick check on it and then then we can click
next.
So what I'm gonna do now is just call this simple WP dash PHP 7. Just so I remember that this is the
one that's been changed and I'm gonna copy and paste that password again and change my instance to t2
micro select my key pair and then click next and that's it.
Let's click Next again and then create stack.
So it's been a few minutes and it looks like our crate is complete and I just wanted to show you the
outputs.
So in this case we have an output and it's actually given us the public DNS to our website.
So if I click on that link this time we've resolved the PHP problem.
So really I just did that to show you how you can then go into the code and make some changes and then
obviously that's had an outcome of fixing the application in this instance.
So that's a very simple introduction to CloudFormation and what I'm gonna do in the next lab is actually
go into using that complex or highly available scalable wordpress installation using the template that's
available.
And we're also gonna make a few modifications look at change sets and updates.
So what we can do now is we want to just delete this stack.
So again we just go in and click delete and it will clean up all the resources for us.